\section{Conclusions and perspectives}

This paper presents the FIT project that aims to test different fuel cycle
simulators functionalities for confidence estimation. Today numerous software
for fuel cycle studies are developed by different institutions for different
type of studies and different goals. Fuel cycle simulators can be used to assess
different questions that requires different level of precision. To increase the
confidence level of studies, all institutions are willing to increase the level
of complexity of the software even if it does not necessary improve the
precision of the calculations. 

The FIT project gathers several institutions worldwide to face the dilemma
between fuel cycle complexity, confidence level of the produced output and code
development needed to achieve the wanted precision. The FIT project approach
consists in testing code functionality by an intra-code comparison of
calculation with and without the feature. The FIT project is not a benchmark and
there is no code to code comparison. The success of the FIT project relies on
the number of different codes that are implies in the functionality test. The
more software are implied, the stronger conclusions on the impact on
functionalities are.   

With this methodology, the FIT project could give informations on which
functionalities are required according to the question that needs to be answered
and the precision level to reach.

The work presented here is dedicated fuel cycle simulators ability to adapt
fresh fuel compositions to the available material. Two treatments are
considered: a fixed enrichment for fresh fuel, whatever the isotopic composition
or an enrichment calculation to adapt the fresh fuel composition in accordance
to the isotopic composition. The first exercise treated here focuses on
potentiality studies to recycle plutonium and the estimators built are
consistent with this kind of studies.  

In agreement with the FIT philosophy all calculations were performed with a
fixed fraction and with the use of a model that calculate fissile enrichment for
fresh fuels. No code to code comparison are done here but each code is tested
with and without a fixed fraction. The importance of adapting fresh fuel
compositions is tested here for 3 main questions : the global plutonium
inventory estimation, the global plutonium inventory evolution rate and the
local plutonium inventory in spent fuel to be reprocessed. 4 different codes are
tested for PWR (CLASS, ANICCA, TR\_EVOL and CYCLUS) and 3 for SFR (CLASS,
TR\_EVOL and JOSETTE). 

Results shows that the FF calculations leads to bias for the BOC plutonium
enrichment between 21\% and 40\% compared to FLM calculations for PWR. Biases
for SFR calculation are observed between ZZ\% and TT\%. The BOC plutonium
enrichment is directly related to the amount of spent fuel reprocessing fuel for
MOX fuel fabrication. Then the use of fixed enrichment for plutonium recycling
studies may bring similar bias for reprocessing rate calculation and plutonium
inventories in stocks. 

Bias of FF use on global inventory and global evolution rate are estimated by
calculating the plutonium consumption ratio and consumption rate during reactor
operations. Those imply depletion calculations in fuel cycle studies which add
uncertainties to our estimations. In the case of SFR, conclusions depends on
reactor breeding ratio. For break-even reactors, FF does not bring any bias on
the plutonium production of incineration whereas for plutonium burner or breeder
reactor, biases on breeding ratio are in between XX\% and YY\%. For PWR, two
tendencies are observed : ANICCA and TR\_EVOL shows respective typical biases of
59\% and 71\% on the plutonium incineration ratio whereas CLASS and CYCLUS shows
respective biases of 12\% and 8\%. This burning ratio is directly linked to the
global inventory of plutonium in the fuel cycle. ANICCA and TR\_EVOL suggest
that a fixed fraction for plutonium enrichment in fresh MOX fuel may bring
consequent uncertainties on plutonium calculations. It should be pointed out
that the plutonium isotopic composition range is very wide and ANICCA and
TR\_EVOL shows some evolution close plutonium iso-breeding. This may be
explained by the fact that ANICCA and TR\_EVOL are used here for depletion
calculations outside of their validity domain.        

All the results presented here aims to estimate biases induced by a FF for
plutonium enrichment for fresh-fuel composition. They don't give any clues about
FLM accuracy and relevance. To qualify FLM, benchmarks and comparison with full
core calculations are needed. Those are out of the FIT project scope and are the
responsibility of each software developers. The observable treated here is
linked to plutonium inventories for reprocessing studies. FF induced bias on
other observables for other applications should be assessed in the future within
other exercises designed on purpose.   

\section{acknowledgment}
